Deep recurrent neural networks
are useful because they
allow you to capture
dependencies that
you could not have
otherwise captured
using shallow RNNs.
In this video, you
will understand
the equations used when
implementing these deep RNNs,
and I'll show you
how that factors in,
into the cost function.
Let's dive in. I will show
you how bidirectional
neural networks work
and how stacking
RNNs together can produce
a deep neural network.
To illustrate the importance
of bidirectional RNNs,
take the following example.
I was trying really hard
to get a hold of blank.
Louise finally answered when
I was about to give up.
As a clever human,
you would able to
fill in the blank
without having to
think very hard.
An RNN that's
propagates information
from the beginning to
the end of sequences,
would be able to make
a prediction tool.
It would take the
words before the blank
as inputs and do its best to
predict the missing word.
However, because Louise doesn't
appear until the beginning
of the next sentence,
it would have to guess
between her, him and them.
Bidirectional RNNs work in
much the same way
that simple RNNs do.
They take an input sequence
x and make the
predictions y hat.
In the RNNs I
showed you earlier,
the information flows from
the beginning to the
end of the sequence.
However, you could have
another architecture
where the information
flowed from the end
to the beginning.
Just imagine going from
the future to the
present instead,
when information flows
in both directions,
that's a bidirectional RNN.
It is important for you to note
that this is an acyclic graph,
which means that the
information flows
independently in
both directions.
The computations from
left to right are
completely independent
of the computations
from right to left.
To get the predictions y hat,
in a bidirectional RNN,
you have to start propagating
information from
both directions.
When you have computed both of
the hidden states
for a timestep,
you can get the
prediction y-hat for
that time using this formula,
which is the same one used for
unidirectional or vanilla RNNs,
but appending both
hidden states this time.
After you compute all
the hidden states
for both directions,
you can get all of the
remaining predictions.
Deep RNNs are similar to
regular deep neural networks.
Deep RNNs have a
layer which takes
the input sequence
x and multiple additional
hidden layers.
As you can see, deep RNNs are
just RNNs stack together.
The intermediates
connections pass
information through the
values of activations,
just as in conventional
deep neural networks.
But for every timestep,
for vanilla deep RNNs,
you have the following
two equations.
They're the same as the ones
that you have seen before.
But let's see how information
flows in this case.
First, you compute
the hidden states for
the current layer.
Then you get the
activations and pass
those values to the
next hidden layer
and repeat this process.
In other words, at first
you propagate information
through time.
Then you go deeper in
the network and repeat
the process for each layer
until you get your predictions.
Now you've become familiar with
the two interesting and
useful varieties of RNNs.
Bidirectional RNNs
propagates information
through time from the
future and from the past.
Deep RNNs can help you solve
more complex tasks
than are possible,
which allow neural networks.
Both architectures are
relatively simple compositions
derived from the
vanilla RNN model
that you've already seen.
It isn't such a big
conceptual leap
to understand their math.
Congratulations on
completing this week.
You have learned about RNNs,
gated recurrent units by
directional and deep RNNs.
In the assignments you
will get to play with RNNs
and learn how they are actually
being implemented. Good luck.